
over the last 4 years --> over my Ph.D.

NJM says: no need to emphasize that it was 4 years instead of 3 years.  Some foreign examiners think all PhDs are 5-6 years like in the USA, when really the British/Australia/NZ system is a 3-year project and therefore has a bit more limited goals/expectations.


Shortened funding statement: it occurred to me that, technically, some of those other grants were not specifically aimed at funding your PhD, so might as well only mention the main one that was.



Beginning of chapter 1: Don't put the Haeckel map as the very first thing, readers will think the topic is human races or something.  Move down to where Figure 1 is mentioned.


The LAGRANGE program is "Lagrange" in Ree & Smith 2008, so let's just use that


C: its processing power was fine, it just didn't have object-oriented features, etc.



Add citations:

Python in 1991 ([cite]), and R in 1993 ([cite])

The (famous!) R citation is by University of Auckland researchers:

Ihaka, R.; Gentleman, R. (1996). "R: A Language for Data Analysis and Graphics". Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics. 5 (3): 299–314.





"Geographic Isolation Threshold": The first time the "geographic isolation" threshold comes up, spend a little more time describing it.  What's confusing to the reader is that all the simulated areas are islands, so they are all "isolated" in that sense.  What you mean, I think, is "the total geographic isolation threshold", i.e. "the distance threshold beyond which dispersal is impossible."  I put language suggesting this in one or two spots.




First citation for PhyBEARS or PhyloBits was in Gplates chapter:

Using the PhyBEARS.jl and companion-package PhyloBits.jl (Matzke & Bland, 2024b)

...make sure you include those citations when the packages are first mentioned in the thesis.



Chapter 6 (I think)

"more robust set of simulations" 

--> Don't suggest your simulations were not robust!



"More rigorous testing of this model would allow for us to trial the flexibility of our Distance Based SSSE model."

...this invites the reviewers to think your work is not rigorous! Cutting it.




common typos:

researches -> researchers
